---
layout: default
title: "Resume"
date: 2023-02-22
---

<hr>

<p style="text-align: center;">Motivated and disciplined Cybersecurity professional and Army veteran that can work under pressure with an aptitude to make decisions. Lead member of a dynamic team focused on successful mission completion. Responsible for increasing efficiency in the workplace and decreasing downtime on company projects. Dedicated to guiding individuals to achieve their goals and tap into their infinite potential.</p>

<div>
  <a href="mailto:dspucches@outlook.com" class="contact-button no-print" itemprop="email">Contact Me</a>
</div>

<hr>


# WORK HISTORY
<hr>

## Information System Security Officer – June 2022 – Present

- Experienced ISSO in both active & passive evaluations, such as compliance audits and evaluations,
using enterprise vulnerability tools (Splunk Enterprise, Nessus, ACAS/Tenable)
- Acting Information System Security Manager (ISSM) for the first eight months in my position as an
ISSO.
- Routinely worked with System and Network Administrators to properly implement Security
Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) for securing information system hardware and software
applications.
- Maintained and implemented appropriate NIST RMF Security Controls to enhance the organizations
security posture.
- Proactively cleaned a six-month stale EMASS record as a new ISSO to meet regulatory compliance
and an on-time Authorization to Operation submission.
- Maintained and implemented the organizational security policies to inherit industry standards and best
practices.
- Reduced open Plan of Actions & Milestones from 324 down to 110 within 6-month time frame.
- diligently worked as a strong member of a team with the System and Network Administrators to
ensure system approval and implementation of Army Sentinel.
- Enforce regulatory Army Cyber Awareness training requirements to ensure the organizations
employees meet regulatory compliance.
- Seamlessly ensured convergence of the organizational IT space under NETCOM while
performing ISSO and ISSM duties.

## Jr. Network Engineer - April 2022 - June 2022
- Resolve escalated customer issues and manage escalations further to internal support.
- Perform level 2/3 troubleshooting of backup and restore failures on multiple platforms with varied
configurations.
- Assist in the design, installation, and management of organization-wide local area network, wide area
network, network segmentation, and internet systems.
- Analyze and provide recommendations for emerging network technologies.
- Performed network maintenance and system upgrades including service packs, patches, hot fixed and
security configurations.
System Engineer – September 2021 – March 2022
- Conduct audits of security controls and policies to ensure clients meet cybersecurity compliance.
- Monitor antivirus and firewall alerts for any intrusions and malware detection.
- Conducted security assessments and made recommendations to decrease organizations threat vector
and mitigate any potential vulnerabilities.
- Remediate vulnerabilities by staying up to date on known CVE’s and applying appropriate patches.
- Managed application patches, data backup, security changes and network configuration, changed
servers and loaded and tested software applications.
- Monitored network and system capacity and performance, as well as diagnosed and resolved network
and system problems.
- Assisted in the development of security programs and security policy using appropriate standards and
NIST guidance.

## System Engineer – September 2021 – March 2022

- Conduct audits of security controls and policies to ensure clients meet cybersecurity compliance.
- Monitor antivirus and firewall alerts for any intrusions and malware detection.
- Conducted security assessments and made recommendations to decrease organizations threat vector
and mitigate any potential vulnerabilities.
- Remediate vulnerabilities by staying up to date on known CVE’s and applying appropriate patches.
- Managed application patches, data backup, security changes and network configuration, changed
servers and loaded and tested software applications.
- Monitored network and system capacity and performance, as well as diagnosed and resolved network
and system problems.
- Assisted in the development of security programs and security policy using appropriate standards and
NIST guidance.

## Movement Supervisor, March 2020 – January 2021
- Provided qualitative analysis on movement programs for logistical support transportation functions
and operations.
- Communicate with credibility and confidence to superiors on present and future operations,
capabilities, and technical problems in the Middle East.
- Relocated multiple missile systems and personnel in support of a named operation that was directed
by the Secretary of Defense contributing to force protection capabilities to defend the United States
and Coalition forces from Iranian aggression.
- Displayed strong ability to analyze critical, informative data to aid in formulating the best solution to
meet international operations.
- Possess remarkable knowledge of computer fundamentals by implementing new computer software
that provided periodic updates to maintain an established connection to maintain work efficiency.
- Provide technical assistance, support, and advice to end users of a small office computer network.

<hr>

## Skills

- Bow Hunting Skills
- NIST

<hr>

## Education

- Southern New Hampshire University - Bachelor of Science - Cybersecurity and Program Management
- Hudson Valley Community College - Associates in Applied Science - Computer Information Systems: System and Network Administration

<hr>

## Certifications

- CompTIA Security+ SY0-601 July 2021
  Code: 0PF9RW4N9C11Q890
- CompTIA CySA+ CS0-002 September 2022
  Code: V8VYZHXSJJ4EQS9P
- Google Technical Support Fundamentals February 2021
- Aruba Product Specialist – Central May 2022
- Aruba Certified Network Technician (ACNT) May 2022
- ITGlue Certified Professional: User level 1 March 2022
  Credential ID: 4gespsuv6535

<hr>

## Credly

<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="36c53f37-46da-49c5-bd7b-c041af1eb126" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div><script type="text/javascript" async src="//cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>

<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="4ba6b31a-1d2f-431c-8172-46eb6bc50fdb" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div><script type="text/javascript" async src="//cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>

<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="521bf739-a79e-435c-af64-cc6b26ca8748" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div><script type="text/javascript" async src="//cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>
<br>
<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="4a0c8b8b-8f47-4362-bdfd-feb854c311d8" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div><script type="text/javascript" async src="//cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>

<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="310b6198-3bb6-4500-a43a-84b39a3ac08b" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div><script type="text/javascript" async src="//cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>

<hr>
