---
layout: default
title: "Do you want to start a Cybersecurity career?"
date: 2023-02-22
---

# How to start my Cybersecurity career?

<hr>

Asking the right questions in any environment will aide in developing 99% of skillsets you want to achieve. A big question that many individuals looking to make a career change may ask is "How do I start my Cybersecurity career?". For some, it may seem quite intimidating, there is such a plethora of information scattered among the world wide web that you can indulge yourself into. When individuals hear "cybersecurity" they think of a guy wearing a black hoodie, running commands on an old, unix looking terminal, reading information propogating on the screen like it was a clip from The Matrix. Well, even though understanding how a terminal/command prompt works, and how to push commands through it to tell the machine what you want to do is good to know, it not what makes cybersecurity, cybersecurity.

First, I'd figure out what roll that may sound appealing to you within the field of cybersecurity. Due understand, when you finally enter the door, you may find that you like certain areas more than others. Like me, I loath writing policies and conducting vulnerability management, but I love putting my hands on a keyboard and figuring out a problem. So just keep that in mind and dont become discouraged if you do not enjoy your first cyber position.

## Some roles you may want to look into:

* __Security Operations Center Analyst__ - Also known as a SOC Analyst, this position may require 24/7 operations. In this position you will put the effort toward detecting cybersecrutiy events in real time. This means conducting triage on alerts that you will receive, conducting an investigation and finding the cause of the alert.
* __Penetration Tester/Red Teaming__ - Penetration testers conduct the vulnerability assessments on organizations with a written contract discussing the scope of the assessment. This could mean physical penetration testing; breaking into the building without anyones knowledge; "hacking" into a network via phishing emails and taking a report of all the weaknesses in the system; it could also limit you to a certain subnet, depending on what can or cannot be tested.
* __Information Assurance__ - In this position you be curating policys, conducting vulnerability management assessments (scanning for vulnerabilities on your network space), creating a Plan of Action & Milestones document for the vulnerability, ensuring your organization is within regulatory compliance, and possibly behind the wheel of a SIEM.
* __Digital Forensic Analyst__ - You will be conducting an analysis of log files, evidence, and other information to determine best methods for identifying the perpetrator(s) of a network intrusion. Provide a technical summary of findings established within the reporting procedures. Perofrm file signature analysis and file system forensic analysis. Collect and analyze intrusion artifacts such as source code, malware, and system configurations. [CISA](https://www.cisa.gov/cyber-defense-forensics-analyst)
* __Malware REverse Engineer__ - Reverse Engineers, also known as Malware Analysts, use decompiling, disassembling, and de-obfuscating to gain a deeper understanding of how and what a malicious software operates.

## Gaining Education

### Certifications

Now, I know there is quite the conflict between whether or not if they are worth it. In my opinion, I believe certifications represent that you understand the basic knowledge of that topic you studied so hard for to pass that exam. I do not believe they represent that youre able to do everything under the sun. There are some certifications that are worth more weight than others, such as the CompTIA Security+ certification. This is a basic level certification required by the Department of Defense in order for you to work within their IT departments. On the other hand, you have the [CISSP](https://www.isc2.org/Certifications/CISSP/experience-requirements) or the Certified Information Systems Security Professional exam. The CISSP is quite a robust exam and does have a minimum requirement of 5 years cumulative paid word experience in two or more of their eight domains. Let's look below at some certifications.

* [__CompTIA Security+__](https://www.comptia.org/faq/security/what-is-on-the-comptia-security-exam#:~:text=CompTIA%20Security%2B%20is%20a%20global,certification%20IT%20professionals%20should%20earn.) - A global certification that validates the *baseline* skills you need to perform core security functions and pursue an IT security career. This certification covers the basics of network and system security and the termonology to get you familiar with the field. This is a great baseline certification, especially if youre deciding to work in the government sector it is required by the federal government per [DoD 8570](https://public.cyber.mil/cw/cwmp/dod-approved-8570-baseline-certifications/). In this post you will see other, DoD approved certifcations.
* [__CompTIA Network__](https://www.comptia.org/certifications/network) - If you do not feel like putting 3-5 months of studying into the CCNA and want a base concept of networks and network security, the Network+ is for you. This certification explains network fundamentals, network implementations, network operations, network security, and network troubleshooting. It is in my opinion that understanding how networks work, even the basics, will undoubtedly help you in your cybersecurity career. It only makes sense that you understand ports and protocols, packets, and how theyre exchanged on a network. How else do you think malicious actors are trying to break into your network with a plethora of different vulnerabilities and attack methods?
* [__Cisco Certified Network Associate__](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/training-events/training-certifications/certifications/associate/ccna.html) - I know some of you may not feel this would be a cybersecurity certification but I believe in having core knowledge of how networks work. The CompTIA Network+ is an alternative option but does not go into too much detail but does focus on network security. Even though the CCNA is a Cisco proprietary certification, most networking ideologies do not change across the board. This exam covers networking fundamentals, IP services, security fundamentals, automation and programmability. Designed for agility and versatility, CCNA validates that you have the skills required to manage and optimize today's most advanced networks.
* [__Cisco Certified Support Technician (CCST) Cybersecurity__](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/training-events/training-certifications/certifications/entry.html) - Welcome the CCST as a brand new cybersecurity certification coming to the industry from Cisco. First introduced in 2023, this certification will validate your knowledge of entry-level netwworking concepts and topics. It will also demonstrate your *foundational* knowledge and skills needed to show how networks operate, including devices, media, and protocols that enable network communications. You may find similar concepts and material that coincide with the CompTIA Security+ certficiation.

<hr>
