---
title: Professional Resume
tags: [resume, cybersecurity, security analyst, career]
categories: [Professional Career]
---

<h1 style="text-align: center;">Dominic Spucches</h1>
<h3 style="text-align: center;">Email: contact@dominicspucches.com</h3>
	   
<h3 style="text-align: center;">Professional Summary</h3>
Dedicated and results-driven Tier 1 SOC Security Analyst with a proven track record of effectively identifying, analyzing, and mitigating security threats. 
Proficient in utilizing industry-leading tools such as CrowdStrike EDR, Splunk SIEM, and QRadar SIEM to monitor and respond to incidents swiftly. Skilled in 
Python scripting and experienced in phishing email analysis, incident management, and incident response. Committed to maintaining the highest levels of cybersecurity, 
contributing to the protection of organizational assets, and continuously enhancing security posture.

<h3 style="text-align: center;">Skills</h3>

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center;">
  <ul style="list-style-type: none; padding: 0; margin-right: 75px;">
    <li>Communication</li>
    <li>Analytical Abilities</li>
    <li>Information Security</li>
    <li>Project Management</li>
    <li>Python</li>
    <li>Windows OS</li>
  </ul>
  <ul style="list-style-type: none; padding: 0;">
    <li>Powershell</li>
    <li>Problem Solving</li>
    <li>Splunk</li>
    <li>CrowdStrike</li>
    <li>QRadar</li>
  </ul>
</div>


<h3 style="text-align: center;">Work History</h3>   	

<h3> 
Information Technology Specialist 3 - Security Analyst - April 2023 - Present
New York State -  Cyber Command (NYSOC) - Albany, NY <br>
Security Clearance: State 
</h3>

- Monitored and analyzed security alerts using CrowdStrike EDR to identify and mitigate potential threats, ensuring the integrity of the organization's systems.
- Utilized Splunk SIEM to investigate and correlate security events, enhancing the detection capabilities of the SOC team and providing real-time threat intelligence.
- Proficiently used the CP4S Incident Management System to log, track, and resolve security incidents, ensuring a structured and efficient incident response process.
- Demonstrated expertise in Python scripting to automate routine SOC tasks, increasing operational efficiency and reducing response time.
- Conducted in-depth phishing email analysis, identifying and remediating phishing threats, and providing training and awareness programs to educate employees on email security best practices.
- Played a key role in incident management and response by participating in incident identification, containment, eradication, and recovery efforts, effectively mitigating security incidents.
- Collaborated with cross-functional teams to provide timely incident updates, contribute to post-incident reports, and develop recommendations for improving the overall security posture.

<h3> 
Information System Security Officer – June 2022 – April 2023 <br>
Watervliet Arsenal – Army Material Command - Watervliet, NY <br>
Security Clearance: Secret 
</h3>

- Experienced ISSO in both active & passive evaluations, such as compliance audits and evaluations, using enterprise vulnerability tools (Splunk Enterprise, Nessus, ACAS/Tenable)
- Acting Information System Security Manager (ISSM) for the first eight months in my position as an ISSO.
- Diligently cleaned a six-month stale eMASS record as a new ISSO to meet regulatory compliance and an on-time Authorization to Operation submission.
- Reduced open Plan of Actions & Milestones from 324 down to 110 within 6 month time frame.
- Diligently worked as a strong member of a team with the System and Network Administrators to ensure system approval and implementation of Army Sentinel. 
- Enforce regulatory Army Cyber Awareness training requirements to ensure the Watervliet Arsenal employees meet regulatory compliance.
- Seamlessly ensured convergence of the Watervliet Arsenal IT space under NETCOM while performing ISSO and ISSM duties.

<h3>
Jr. Network Engineer - April 2022 - June 2022 <br>
PNJ Technology Partners – Albany, NY
</h3>

- Resolve escalated customer issues and manage escalations further to internal support
- Perform level 2/3 troubleshooting of backup and restore failures on multiple platforms with varied configurations
- Assist in the design, installation, and management of organization-wide local area network, wide area network, network segmentation, and internet systems.
- Analyze and provide recommendations for emerging network technologies
- Performed network maintenance and system upgrades including service packs, patches, hot fixed and security configurations

<h3> 
System Engineer – September 2021 – March 2022 <br>
TechBridge Group LLC. – Albany, NY
</h3>

- Conduct audits of security controls and policies to ensure clients meet cybersecurity compliance.
- Monitor anti-virus and firewall alerts for any intrusions and malware detection.
- Conducted security assessments and made recommendations to decrease organizations threat vector and mitigate any potential vulnerabilities.
- Remediate vulnerabilities by staying up to date on known CVE’s and applying appropriate patches. 
- Managed application patches, data backup, security changes and network configuration, changed servers and loaded and tested software applications.
- Monitored network and system capacity and performance, as well as diagnosed and resolved network and system problems.
Assisted in the development of security programs and security policy using appropriate standards and NIST guidance.


<h3>
Movement Supervisor, March 2020 – January 2021 <br>
42ID New York Army National Guard, Task Force Spartan – Camp Arifjan, Kuwait <br>
Security Clearance: Secret
</h3>

- Provided qualitative analysis on movement programs for logistical support transportation functions and operations.
- Communicate with credibility and confidence to superiors on present and future operations, capabilities, and technical problems in the Middle East. 
- Relocated multiple missile systems and personnel in support of a named operation that was directed by the Secretary of Defense contributing to force protection capabilities to defend the United States and Coalition forces from Iranian aggression.
- Displayed strong ability to analyze critical, informative data to aid in formulating the best solution to meet international operations.
- Possess remarkable knowledge of computer fundamentals by implementing new computer software that provided periodic updates to maintain an established connection to maintain work efficiency. 
- Provide technical assistance, support, and advice to end users of a small office computer network.


<h3 style="text-align: center;">Education</h3>   	

<b>Bachelor of Science: Cybersecurity with a concentration of Program Management</b><br>
Southern New Hampshire University: Manchester, NH

<b>Associate of Applied Science: Computer Information Systems: System and Network Administration</b> <br> 
Hudson Valley Community College: Troy, NY
	 
<h3 style="text-align: center;">Certifications</h3>

- SANS GIAC Security Operations Center (Pending)				May 2024 <br>
- CompTIA Security+ SY0-601						July 2021 <br>
- Code: 0PF9RW4N9C11Q890	<br>
- CompTIA CySA+ CS0-002							September 2022 <br>
- Code: V8VYZHXSJJ4EQS9P <br>
- Google Technical Support Fundamentals					February 2021 <br>
- Aruba Product Specialist – Central						May 2022 <br>
- Aruba Certified Network Technician (ACNT)				May 2022 <br>
- ITGlue Certified Professional: User level 1					March 2022 <br>
	Credential ID: 4gespsuv6535 


<h3 style="text-align:center;">References</h3>	

- Matthew Kelly – Chief Technical Officer – Techbridge Group <br>
Contact: matt@elucidsystems.com Phone: (518) 331-8243

- Cody Reimers – Network & Systems Tech – Albany County Sheriff’s Office <br>
Contact: cody.reimers@albanycountyny.org Phone: (518) 925-4616


