---
title: Professional Resume
date: 2024-04-19
author: Dominic Spucches
categories: [Blogging, Professional, Resume]
tags: [resume]
---

# DOMINIC SPUCCHES
* **

## PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
Motivated and disciplined Cybersecurity professional and Army veteran with the ability to work under pressure and make decisions. Lead member of a dynamic team focused on successful mission completion. Responsible for increasing efficiency in the workplace and decreasing downtime on company projects. Dedicated to guiding individuals to achieve their goals and tap into their infinite potential.

## SKILLS
- Communication
- Analytical Abilities
- Information Security
- Project Management
- Python
- Problem-Solving
- Splunk
- CrowdStrike EDR
- QRadar
- Risk Management Framework

## WORK HISTORY

### Information Technology Specialist 3 - Security Analyst
*April 2023 - Present*

  - Monitored and analyzed security alerts using CrowdStrike EDR to identify and mitigate potential threats, ensuring the integrity of the organization's systems.
  - Utilized Splunk SIEM to investigate and correlate security events, enhancing the detection capabilities of the SOC team and providing real-time threat intelligence.
  - Proficiently used the CP4S Incident Management System to log, track, and resolve security incidents, ensuring a structured and efficient incident response process.
  - Demonstrated expertise in Python scripting to automate routine SOC tasks, increasing operational efficiency and reducing response time.
  - Conducted in-depth phishing email analysis, identifying and remediating phishing threats, and providing training and awareness programs to educate employees on email security best practices.
  - Played a key role in incident management and response by participating in incident identification, containment, eradication, and recovery efforts, effectively mitigating security incidents.
  - Collaborated with cross-functional teams to provide timely incident updates, contribute to post-incident reports, and develop recommendations for improving the overall security posture.


### Information System Security Officer
*June 2022 – April 2023*

- Experienced ISSO in both active & passive evaluations, such as compliance audits and evaluations, using enterprise vulnerability tools (Splunk Enterprise, Nessus, ACAS/Tenable).
- Acting Information System Security Manager (ISSM) for the first eight months in my position as an ISSO.
- Routinely worked with System and Network Administrators to properly implement Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) for securing information system hardware and software applications.
- Maintained and implemented appropriate NIST RMF Security Controls to enhance the organization's security posture.
- Proactively cleaned a six-month stale EMASS record as a new ISSO to meet regulatory compliance and an on-time Authorization to Operation submission.
- Reduced open Plan of Actions & Milestones from 324 down to 110 within 6-month time frame.
- Diligently worked as a strong member of a team with the System and Network Administrators to ensure system approval and implementation of Army Sentinel.
- Enforced regulatory Cyber Awareness training requirements to ensure employees meet regulatory compliance.
- Seamlessly ensured convergence of the IT space under higher command while performing ISSO and ISSM duties.

### Jr. Network Engineer
*April 2022 - June 2022*

- Resolved escalated customer issues and managed escalations further to internal support.
- Performed level 2/3 troubleshooting of backup and restore failures on multiple platforms with varied configurations.
- Assisted in the design, installation, and management of organization-wide local area network, wide area network, network segmentation, and internet systems.
- Analyzed and provided recommendations for emerging network technologies.
- Performed network maintenance and system upgrades including service packs, patches, hot fixed and security configurations.

### System Engineer
*September 2021 – March 2022*

- Conducted audits of security controls and policies to ensure clients meet cybersecurity compliance.
- Monitored antivirus and firewall alerts for any intrusions and malware detection.
- Conducted security assessments and made recommendations to decrease organization's threat vector and mitigate any potential vulnerabilities.
- Remediated vulnerabilities by staying up to date on known CVE’s and applying appropriate patches.
- Managed application patches, data backup, security changes and network configuration, changed servers and loaded and tested software applications.
- Monitored network and system capacity and performance, as well as diagnosed and resolved network and system problems.
- Assisted in the development of security programs and security policy using appropriate standards and NIST guidance.

### Movement Supervisor
*March 2020 – January 2021*

- Provided qualitative analysis on movement programs for logistical support transportation functions and operations.
- Communicated with credibility and confidence to superiors on present and future operations, capabilities, and technical problems in the Middle East.
- Relocated multiple missile systems and personnel in support of a named operation that was directed by the Secretary of Defense contributing to force protection capabilities to defend the United States and Coalition forces from Iranian aggression.
- Displayed strong ability to analyze critical, informative data to aid in formulating the best solution to meet international operations.
- Possessed remarkable knowledge of computer fundamentals by implementing new computer software that provided periodic updates to maintain an established connection to maintain work efficiency.
- Provided technical assistance, support, and advice to end users of a small office computer network.

## EDUCATION
- **Bachelor of Science:** Cybersecurity with a concentration of Program Management, Southern New Hampshire University, Manchester, NH
- **Associate of Applied Science:** Computer Information Systems: System and Network Administration, Hudson Valley Community College, Troy, NY

## CERTIFICATIONS

<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="0b994760-cc84-408f-a630-89f89fe3143d" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" async src="https://cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>

<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="51caabc7-0360-47d4-a7b1-dcf473df4b3f" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div><script type="text/javascript" async src="//cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>

<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="36c53f37-46da-49c5-bd7b-c041af1eb126" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" async src="https://cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>

<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="4ba6b31a-1d2f-431c-8172-46eb6bc50fdb" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" async src="https://cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>

<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="521bf739-a79e-435c-af64-cc6b26ca8748" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" async src="https://cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>

<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="4a0c8b8b-8f47-4362-bdfd-feb854c311d8" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" async src="https://cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>

<div data-iframe-width="150" data-iframe-height="270" data-share-badge-id="310b6198-3bb6-4500-a43a-84b39a3ac08b" data-share-badge-host="https://www.credly.com"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" async src="https://cdn.credly.com/assets/utilities/embed.js"></script>
